# Random Sentence Generator Based On Ngram Models
Developed for University of Minnesota Duluth course Intro to Natural Language Processing.  
Author: Ruta Wheelock  
Date: 10/06/2017  

## Description
This program builds unigram, bigram and trigram models of an input text
and generates random text based on these Ngram models.
Generated random text demostrates differences between Ngram models.

Unigram model randomly selects words from the text. More common words
  have higher probability to show up. This model does not consider likelihood of a following
  word, only the probability of any single word.
  
Bigram model looks at word pairs. When a word is given, the next word is selected only from
  those words that have followed the given word in the input text. This model allows to generate
  more readable text.
  
Trigram model considers three proceeding words. First, it devides the input text in trigrams.
  When a word is given, the following two are selected from a trigram that was observed
  in the input text. Random text generated by trigram model might give an insight into the input text.

The program accepts at least three command line arguments.  
To run the program execute
```
$ ./random_text_gen.py <n> <m> <input-files/s>
```
from the location where this program is saved.  
Replace &lt;n&gt; with 1, 2 or 3 for Ngram model you wish to execute.
  1 generates unigram, 2 - bigram but 3 - trigram model. 
Replace &lt;m&gt; with a number of sentences to generate. Only positive integers can be accepted.  
Replace &lt;input-files/s&gt; with at least one input file name.  
  Multiple file names need to be separated by a space.
  All input files have to be saved in a directory named "texts"
  Texts directory should be located in the same place where this program.

## Examples
To generate 3 random senteces from unigrams in texts Anna Karenina, The Idiot and War and Peace execute:
```
% ./random_text_gen.py 1 3 karenina.txt theidiot.txt warandpeace.txt
```
One of the random senteces could look like this:
```
  look , before of faintly of road thought anxious tiny officer as amused re " up , though other , 
  mother musician stopped set zov rost would make of she he , only it ignorance everything at .
```

To generate 10 random senteces from bigrams in texts Anna Karenina, The Idiot and War and Peace execute:
```
% ./random_text_gen.py 2 10 karenina.txt theidiot.txt warandpeace.txt
```
One of the random senteces could look like this:
```
  not go away or anything mysterious poetical veil , but he said something quite inconceivable that was 
  in the right to win a side .
```

To generate 5 random senteces from trigrams in texts Anna Karenina, The Idiot and War and Peace execute:
```
% ./random_text_gen.py 3 5 karenina.txt theidiot.txt warandpeace.txt
```
One of the random senteces could look like this:
```
  knowing to which was a green tree and trembling with rage , his grandfather , with a tall old bullets in
  the middle of his troops , to a brilliant young men do ; on behind the earth in which count had gone astray .
```
